Over the years, people have tried to build data warehouses differently,
optimizing for different factors.
There were many so-called models or architectures for building a data warehouse.
Perhaps some of the most famous designs
or architectures are the Kimball architecture and the Inmon architecture,
the say Corporate Information Factory.
So, let's take them one by one.
So, in the Kimball's bus architecture we have the source transaction system,
we have an ETL process.
Here this area actually never gets exposed to the end-user at all.
What happens is we transform the data and we put it into dimensional model.
Here, the dimensional model facts are not aggregated,
they are on the what they call atomic level which means we should
come to a number that we cannot divide further.
We can also pre-aggregate it but
the atomic level has to be always there in case we need to go to the lowest level.
It should be organized by business processes or departments.
That's actually what's meant here which means
the salespeople would know exactly where to go,
the marketing people would know,
the HR would know where to go and so forth.
The most also important property here is
the idea of conformed dimensions which means that if I did a date dimension,
I use it across all departments.
So, I try to generalize and build
all my dimensions in a way that is usable by the whole organization.
It needs some careful design of course to be able to do something like that.
Again the whole point always is ease of use and great performance.
Then we have the application here.
Sometimes we call this area the front room because this area is
exposed to end-users and this is the backroom.
Sometimes Kimball's gives the analogy of the kitchen and the dining room.
So, that is the kitchen where you actually prepare things to be served here
and you can have them served to your customer in the dining room.
You actually go and give to your users what's known as the bus matrix.
So, you know that for each business process,
it's going to use this dimension, this dimension,
this dimension but the important thing is that the date dimension,
or the product dimension,
or the store dimension should be all over
across business departments and business processes, it should be the same.
The ETL here is actually a little bit more involved
than our copy from sequel to sequel because we get the data from its source.
Of course we have many sources so it's a bit
hybrid and then we possibly delete the old state.
Sometimes the OLTP cannot hold a lot of
state and we need that state so not only do we copy
but we actually move data which is unneeded state before OLTP.
Then for the transformation,
we should be able to know how to integrate
multiple data sources that might not be even aware of each other.
Possibly, we can clean inconsistencies, duplication,
missing values, and clean things up.
We can also produce diagnostic metadata like we can say,
"Actually when we get this data from that source,
we found lots of inconsistencies."
So, the output of the translation process
itself might even be reported back as a metric that
this source of data is not really clean
or we get lots of duplicated data from it and so forth.
Then finally, we go and load that into the dimension.